The New Testament teaches that the local church is the visible organized expression of the body of Christ. It is therefore essentially a spiritual entity and best conceived of as a living, growing organism rather than as an expanding organization. Life is derived from the Head, Jesus Christ, on whom the church is absolutely dependent in order to be and to become all that God has called it to.  

The people of God are to live and serve in obedience to the Word of God and under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. All believers have a vital role to play if the full ministry of the church is to be carried out. Each member of the body must function as directed by Jesus Christ, the Head, and as empowered by His Spirit. This involves ministry: 1) to God (worship), 2) to those within the body of Christ (edification), 3) to those outside the body of Christ (evangelism). Leadership for these on-going ministries is to come from the governance authority, a team chosen from among the local congregation for the godly quality of their lives, as dictated by scripture.  

The local congregation finds broader meaning and outreach in fulfilling its Biblical responsibilities within the life and witness of the denomination. As such, it is an integral part of the district and worldwide fellowship, and is united in governance, fellowship, and service in order to promote unity of faith in the fullness of Jesus Christ as Savior, Sanctifier, Healer, and Coming King, and to facilitate the spread of the gospel at home and abroad under the guidance of the Holy Spirit.  

Our church mission statement: Our mission is to know Jesus Christ; exalt Him as Savior, Sanctifier, Healer, and coming King; and complete His Great Commission: Evangelizing and discipling persons throughout the United States, and incorporating them in Christ-centered, community-focused congregations, mobilizing them for active involvement in a missionary effort designed to plant Great Commission churches among both unreached and responsive peoples worldwide. Knowing Christ and Completing His Great Commission. 

Reference to [Section XX Article #]  - is a reference to sections of the 2023 Manual of the Christian and Missionary Alliance. These bylaws are not in conflict with the Constitution. 
